feat: add `stats/base/ndarray/dmeanstdev` (#8525)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dmeanstdev/README.md

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2025 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# dmeanstdev

> Compute the [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a one-dimensional double-precision floating-point ndarray.

<section class="intro">

> The [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] are defined as

Reviewer: You should just copy the introduction from `stats/strided/dmeanstdev` instead of rolling your own. This makes find-and-replace easier when we are consistent in our docs across similar packages.

Reviewer: This comment still needs to be addressed.

    <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/stdlib-js/stdlib@42d8f64d805113ab899c79c7c39d6c6bac7fe25c/lib/node_modules/@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dmeanstdev/docs/img/equation_corrected_sample_standard_deviation.svg" alt="Equation for the standard deviation.">
    <br>
</div> -->

<!-- </equation> -->

where the use of the term `n-1` is commonly referred to as Bessel's correction.

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var dmeanstdev = require( '@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dmeanstdev' );
```

#### dmeanstdev( arrays )

Computes the [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a one-dimensional double-precision floating-point ndarray.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );
var ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor' );

var xbuf = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 3.0, 4.0, 2.0 ] );
var x = new ndarray( 'float64', xbuf, [ 4 ], [ 1 ], 0, 'row-major' );
var out = new ndarray( 'float64', new Float64Array( 2 ), [ 2 ], [ 1 ], 0, 'row-major' );

var v = dmeanstdev( [ x, out ] );
// returns <Float64Array>[ 2.5, ~1.2910 ]
```

The function has the following parameters:

> -   **arrays**: array-like object containing a one-dimensional input ndarray and an output ndarray (of length 2) to store the [mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **arrays**: array-like object containing a one-dimensional input ndarray and a one-dimensional output ndarray.
```

Mirroring description found in https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/cumax.

> The output ndarray contains two elements: the [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] at index 0 and the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] at index 1. By default, the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] is computed using Bessel's correction (i.e., a degrees of freedom adjustment equal to 1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

> -   If provided an empty one-dimensional ndarray, the function returns a [mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] equal to `NaN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   If provided an empty one-dimensional ndarray, the computed [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] are equal to `NaN`.
```

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var dmeanstdev = require( '@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dmeanstdev' );
```

#### dmeanstdev( arrays )

Computes the [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a one-dimensional double-precision floating-point ndarray.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var xbuf = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 3.0, 4.0, 2.0 ] );
var x = new ndarray( opts.dtype, xbuf, [ 4 ], [ 1 ], 0, 'row-major' );
var out = new ndarray( opts.dtype, new Float64Array( 2 ), [ 2 ], [ 1 ], 0, 'row-major' );

var correction = scalar2ndarray( 1.0, opts );

> var v = dmeanstdev( [ x, out, correction ] );

Reviewer: You should be able to use `ndarray2array` to display the (approximate) results.

// returns <ndarray>
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **arrays**: array-like object containing the following ndarrays in order:

    1.  a one-dimensional input ndarray.

>     2.  a one-dimensional output ndarray (of length 2) to store the [mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2.  a one-dimensional output ndarray to store the [mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation].
```

>     3.  a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying the degrees of freedom adjustment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3.  a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying the degrees of freedom adjustment. Setting this to a value other than `0` has the effect of adjusting the divisor during the calculation of the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] according to `N-c` where `c` corresponds to the provided degrees of freedom adjustment. When computing the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a population, setting this to `0` is the standard choice (i.e., the provided array contains data constituting an entire population). When computing the corrected sample [standard deviation][standard-deviation], setting this to `1` is the standard choice (i.e., the provided array contains data sampled from a larger population; this is commonly referred to as Bessel's correction).
```

The output ndarray contains two elements: the [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] at index 0 and the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] at index 1. The [standard deviation][standard-deviation] is computed using the provided degrees of freedom adjustment. Setting the correction parameter to `1` corresponds to Bessel's correction (i.e., the corrected sample standard deviation). Setting it to `0` computes the population standard deviation.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

> -   If provided an empty one-dimensional ndarray, the computed [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] are equal to `NaN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   If provided an empty one-dimensional ndarray, the computed [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] are equal to `NaN`.
-   If `N - c` is less than or equal to `0` (where `c` corresponds to the provided degrees of freedom adjustment), the computed [arithmetic mean][arithmetic-mean] and [standard deviation][standard-deviation] are equal to `NaN`.
```

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/array/discrete-uniform' );
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var dmeanstdev = require( '@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dmeanstdev' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var xbuf = discreteUniform( 10, -50, 50, {
    'dtype': 'float64'

> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var xbuf = discreteUniform( 10, -50, 50, opts );
```
